We are moving to our first demonstration concerning integration testing.
Remember, we already have a unit tested application.
It consists of two classes, flight and passenger,
and we have made sure that each of them is working fine in isolation.
What we are going to try now is to investigate how the two classes cooperate.
In order to cooperate,
they need to expose appropriate interfaces and we are going to expose some
defects of these interfaces that prevent their interaction.
Consequently, we'll follow our objective to move to integration testing.
We come back to our application and we remind that it
is composed of the two classes, Flight and Passenger,
that have been individually tested.
We are running again the tests and everything is green.
We have prepared a CSV file containing the description of 50 passengers.
A passenger may join a flight, of course,
after buying a ticket,
but our sellTicket method does not get a passenger as argument.
It just sells the ticket to somebody unknown.
This is not good and we have discovered a defect in the
interface and in the interaction between components.
In fact, there is no interaction so far between the two components.
Each of them is working in splendid isolation while for sure a flight
and its passengers must be somehow related together.
We know the code for our units,
but the tests have been conducted using the exposed interfaces.
We are in the situation of grey box testing.
So we are changing the interface so that the sellTicket
receives a Passenger as argument.
Now the other test will complain.
The initial sellTicket method does not receive any arguments.
We should sell 50 tickets, but to whom?
Of course, to the 50 passengers that have been prepared in our CSV file.
In order to parse it and to create the passengers,
we introduce this new FlightBuilderUtil class and
this buildFlightFromCsv method.
We create a new flight from London to Bucharest that
we want to return from this method.
We are pressing the CSV file, readLine by line,
and construct the passenger based on the read information.
After constructing the passenger, we are selling a ticket to him.
And we'll change the test in order to fit the modified interface.
We are building the flight from the CSV and we are trying
to sell a ticket to our new passenger.
For the testSetInvalidPlaces method,
we are building the flight from the CSV and we are
trying to reduce the number of places.
For the testSetValidPlaces method,
we are again building the flight from the CSV and we
are extending the number of places.
Of course,
all three modified tests will need to announce that the throw IOException
as this one is thrown by buildFlightFromCsv method.
We are running a test again and they are all green.
So we have made a successful first step towards the
integration of our two components.
Moving forward to the analysis of the current interfaces,
we find out that the passenger should be added to the
flight after selling a ticket to him,
but he can also be removed from that flight.
So the modified interface should have an addPassenger
method to call sellTicket inside it,
but also a removePassenger method and a Flight class
should be even more integrated with passenger and keep the
set of the recorded passengers.
So we'll introduce this set to be kept here and these two methods.
We'll change this buildFlightFromCsv method to use
addPassenger instead of sellTicket as sellTicket is called as
we have noticed from inside addPassenger.
We'll make another change into the interface.
SellTicket can now be private.
It is called only from inside addPassenger.
We should also do some internal changes into the Flight class.
The int passengers field is no longer necessary.
The number of passengers can be obtained from the passenger set.
To clarify the intent of the getPassengers method,
we'll rename it as getPassengersNumber, otherwise,
it may confuse the user as now we are keeping the
whole passenger set inside the flight.
We also need to change this test to replace sellTicket,
which is now private, with addPassenger,
and there is still one new method from the interface that needs to be tested.
It is removePassenger.
We are building a flight from a CSV, we are increasing the number of places,
we are inserting an additional passenger,
and then we are removing him.
We check to have 50 passengers and 51 places.
We run the tests again and they are green.
We would like to measure the code coverage again.
We run mvn test from the command prompt.
Into the index.html file,
we'll be able to take a look at the code coverage and it is 100%.
So we have made a new successful step towards the integration of our
two components by changing their interface so that they cooperate and we have also kept the code coverage at 100%.